hi I'm Scotty with a twin transmissions
today we're going to talk about the
Chevrolet pickup truck probably the
number one most popular vehicle out
there for trucks today we're going to
talk about the two wheel drive rear
wheel drive half ton Chevrolet 1500
series that's a 4l60 transmission if
you've had this happen you get in your
car and you put it in reverse and it
doesn't want to go in reverse or you
lose second and fourth gear also just
one second we'll show you why that
happened and what we do to prevent that
from ever happening we're talking about
the problem with the Chevy truck the
1500 series 4l60e with the no reverse no
second no fourth condition back in the
eighties several it came out with what
we call the sundar drive shell that was
non hardened steel meaning this area
right in here is not hardened so there's
two things that happens to it the first
thing is is inside this son shell are
supposed to be splines and this gear
drives inside here let's fly spline out
strip themselves out you get a no
reverse movement that's one of the
problems with not having a hardened
steel the second one is is they just
literally break up you can see the
sponge ring there but it still broke
right off the Sun shell now for
reversion see this son shell splines
into the drum to give you a reverse
condition the band squeezes this drum
for second and fourth gear so this is
bad you don't spend the drought so you
lose second and fourth and you also lose
reverse nowaday Qin transmissions what
we do is we give you a couple different
ways to go
the first way is with a hardened steel
stock this would be good for any
application that isn't towing or big
four-wheel-drive stuff but with a
hardened steel or you can go where we
also have available to us today what we
call the beast it's a super heavy-duty
it's about 30,000 sticker on this area
here and it's much thicker on the actual
surface here this is called the beast
it's super super heavy-duty and this is
what I would recommend if you have a
four-wheel drive vehicle so the next
time you get in your chevy truck and you
have about 110,000 miles and it doesn't
go into reverse you know what the
problem is